SimpleBackup Installation Guide
Copyright (c) 2017 Hoyt Harness, Positronikal
See the end of the file for copying permissions.


BASIC INSTALLATION

This is a bash application, but should run on most current *NIX shells.
The only dependency is dialog, which is also available in the
repositories of most modern distributions. To confirm the presence of
dialog, open a terminal and type:

  $ which dialog

This should return something like:

  $ /usr/bin/dialog

This is the location of dialog's binary. The following command should
return dialog's version:

  $ dialog --version
  Version: 1.3-20160209

Unzip the SimpleBackup download or navigate to the cloned directory,
depending on how you obtained the files from Github. Copy the script in
the src/ directory to the directory on your computer from which you
intend to run it. One recommendation is to create a bin/ subdirectory
in your home directory and copy the script there:

  $ mkdir ~/bin

  ...from the src directory:
  $ cp backup.sh ~/bin/

This can easily be accomplished from a file manager, such as Nemo, as
well.

Before running, make sure backup.sh has it's executable bit set. Do
this by either right clicking from a file manager and selecting
"Properties", then the "Permissions" tab or by running the following
command from a terminal opened to the directory in which SimpleBackup
is located:

  $ ls -Fla

To make the script executable using the Permissions tab of Properties,
simply check the block allowing the application to execute. To change
it in a terminal, use the following command:

  $ chmod 711 backup.sh

You'll need to attach an external device and mount the file system with
a label of "BACKUP". This will tpically be in

  /media/[your_user_name]/BACKUP

SimpleBackup will look for this location before running.

To run, either open a terminal and run the following command as long as
bin/ is in your path variable:

  $ backup.sh

...or in a terminal opened in the bin directory:

  $ ./backup.sh

...or double-clicking backup.sh in a file manager and selecting "Run in
a terminal".

Once it initializes, a simple GUI interface will explain the program
and offer choices to run or abort. Everything is automatic from there.
If you ran it using either of the first two run options above, when
SimpleBackup finishes, it will return terminal control back to you. If
you ran it by clicking on it, the terminal will simply exit.

COPYING PERMISSIONS

Permission is granted to anyone to make or distribute verbatim copies
of this document as received, in any medium, provided that the
copyright notice and permission notice are preserved, and that the
distributor grants the recipient permission for further redistribution
as permitted by this notice.

Permission is granted to distribute modified versions of this document,
or of portions of it, under the above conditions, provided also that
they carry prominent notices stating who last changed them.

